---
title: "Third place as first priority"
date: 2025-06-09
description: "Why I’m spending 21 straight days in the same Leeds pub."
tags: essays
series: britain-in-moderation
layout: "essay.njk"
permalink: "/third-place-as-first-priority/"
---

There are a lot of angles I could use to introduce my next project.

I could tell you I’m writing in the tradition of the esteemed life experimenters, A.J. Jacobs and Jessica Pan.

I could tell you I’m attempting to find a space where my inner and outer worlds more-naturally connect.

I could tell you I’m searching for a furlong of social fabric.

I could tell you my therapist recommended I go to the pub.

All of that is true. But I’m really just looking for belonging. For a sliver of public life. To interact with literally anyone without acting like I enjoy running or dogs.

This is the idea behind ___The Half Pint Pilgrimage___.

I am picking a pub in Leeds and plan to stop in for 21 straight days. I’ll order a half pint, not tip (respectfully, of course! that’s the norm), and simply exist. Everything beyond that is anthropological: I’ll observe how it feels on night 1, night 8, night 18. Maybe I recognize some people, maybe I don’t! Either outcome will inform how I relate to the place.

Why Leeds? Because I liked it. It’s central to a part of me I try to [keep in moderation](/britain-in-moderation/) but [occasionally relapse into](/belonging-in-public-while-far-from-home/). I’ve long felt like a ghost in NYC. Working for myself has made that even more apparent, but also made me wonder if something else is possible. Besides having a pleasing mid-sized walkable urbanism, I suspect the social fabric might hold me in a way NYC’s simply doesn’t.

I’m happy to work on my projects and explore my town solo during the day. I often prefer it. But having a low-friction social anchor to return to in the evening? That’s the holy grail. I’ve found glimpses of this in my NYC walk group, but I want to see if this exists in another form, one which is embedded into society.

Enter: the British pub. Their technical and cultural aspects resonate with me. You order at the bar. It’s a public living room with beer. They’ve already charged my contactless before I can say “Can I go ahead and close out?”

[If my grandmother reads this: I’ll be sure to pick a place with an Anglican landlord. I think that would be important to her?]

I’ve been circling this feeling for years: reading alone in Starbucks on Friday nights, craving conversation on solo trips, wondering why breweries in the U.S. never quite scratch the itch. When I took my rhythms to North Carolina recently, the people were friendly, but I was the only one on the sidewalk. I kept trying to tell myself the qUaLiTy Of LiFe was high, but something kept stirring. Urbanism matters to me, a sense of place matters to me.

I’ve been chasing some version of this for over a decade. Now that I have a physical container that carries a fluid ounce of hope, I’m going to see it through. And rather than squeezing into social norms that never really served me, I’m going to do what I do in all my From Scratch projects: trust my instincts, forge my own path.

Some people (in my texts, sent by me) are already referring to this experiment as the Supersize Me of Yorkshire. I remember that dude taking a physical exam at the start and end of his experiment. Do you think the NHS would do that, but for my mental health? _Please ask questions that get at the patient's sense of possibility._

_The Half Pint Pilgrimage_ begins later this summer. My updates will be split between full essays here and smaller dispatches [on Notes]({{ site.substackProfileUrl }}). I’ve promised myself I’ll produce one standalone essay out of this, but that is the floor, not the ceiling.

If you've ever had a friend who wouldn't shut up about the lack of third places or simply enjoyed sitting at the bar by themselves, I hope you'll share this project with them.

If this describes you: amazing! Thanks for being here!

More to come!

Please send any competitive bids explaining why I should pick your local pub.

The deadline was 5 minutes ago.
