---
title: "One relationship at a time"
date: 2026-07-07
description: "Cultivating a local scene."
tags: essays
layout: "essay.njk"
permalink: "/one-relationship-at-a-time/"
---

“Oh nice, it's like a little pub night.”

One of my new bar night regulars spoke an unprompted testimonial last week.

I introduced one new person to another relatively new person, and then introduced them both to the bartender.

I chuckled realizing I met them both at the same place. Not on the same day, but at the same recurring volunteer opportunity.

Bar night began after [my experiment in Leeds last summer](https://fromscratchpress.substack.com/p/the-half-pint-pilgrimage), but it’s played out differently than I expected.

I thought it would only feel real if we successfully assimilated with an existing scene of regulars. I’ve met a small handful of people in this category, but that’s actually not how it’s played out.

What’s happened is we’re building a small web of relationships which are downstream of other local events. I don’t have to invite people I meet to coffee anymore, I just tell them when they can stop by the bar.

Among our recent arrivals, one heard about my bar gathering and came the following week, another followed up months later and then stopped by. Hopefully we can keep adding to the local fabric one stitch at a time.

I've spent a long time assuming that code spreads differently than local relationships because it lives on the internet. For example, I used to think the only way to share Memphis with people was through intimidating posts in large, and oddly aggressive, Reddit communities.

Perhaps there’s another way: turning a budding online relationship into one real user. If you’re looking for an unfinished Python interpreter, I hope you’ll reach out.

## Elsewhere

I split Memphis into [two crates](https://github.com/fromscratchcode/memphis/commit/c21ebec18e6412b97a8cd978d56ba4f5d84293d6) to isolate a dependency and begin molding its public API. The API is still messy, but it’s exciting to have one at all.

And one of my students used the [Memphis Playground](https://memphis.fromscratchcode.com/) to build a small function, the first time I’ve observed it being used as more than a glorified snippet sharer. It “worked,” but was a reminder that my error messages, especially for syntax/whitespace issues, are severely lacking. That’s an area I’ll have to spend some time on if I want my users to not dislike Memphis and by extension not hate me personally.

That’s all for this week.
