---
title: "From Scratch Digest (1 of 1)"
date: 2025-05-26
description: "I published a book + a few unresolved thoughts."
tags: essays
layout: "essay.njk"
permalink: "/from-scratch-digest-1-of-1/"
---

_Lake-Effect Coffee_ is now [for sale on Amazon]({{ site.novellaUrl }})! It’s also still free on [From Scratch Press](https://fromscratchpress.com/series/lake-effect-coffee/). If you’d like to support me, I’d really appreciate it. Thanks for being here either way.

I don’t know if it’s _good_ or not, but I’m sure it’s mine. I didn’t expect to write and publish a work of fiction in my first year as a self-employed software mentor, but I guess that’s what my brain was hoping to bring into the world.

---

I went to a walk group this week and talked to two people. I plan to go back next week!

If you’ve been following me [on Notes]({{ site.substackProfileUrl }}), you’ve seen me circling the question: _Are there any settings where people talk to each other without performance or earned belonging?_

Perhaps this walk group is one of those.

It reminds me of the time I posted to Reddit about a new group I was starting: “Bird Watching Support Group for Non-Bird Watchers.” I got basically zero responses, but it’s funny to read it back now and see how this walk group's goals are fairly similar to what I was looking for then—except it actually exists.

---

I feel way more mentally stable and content than I did in my 9-5. I also feel kind of invisible. I have another life experiment in the works related to this.

---

I’m scared to publish this, given it’s not an 800-1200 word essay with a tight thesis, medium imagery, and a few British references. Is it okay for me to take up space in this way?

---

What are you working on? Thinking about?
